docs/asm-gke-terraform/README.md, before:

## Managed Anthos Service Mesh on GKE with Terraform 

This is a general setup of a single cluster with Anthos Service Mesh using the native [GKE Fleet Terraform resource](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/google-beta/latest/docs/resources/gke_hub_feature) for the examples in the `docs` folder.

The following will set up a GKE cluster with Anthos Service Mesh (ASM) with a _Managed Control Plane_ installed. 

The following services will be required for this: 
* `mesh.googleapis.com`

### Prerequisites
* This tutorial is best suited for [Cloud Shell](https://shell.cloud.google.com), which comes ready with the Google Cloud SDK and Terraform.
*  You can follow this setup with either a [new Google Cloud Project](https://cloud.google.com/resource-manager/docs/creating-managing-projects#creating_a_project) or a pre-existing Google Cloud Project. It is recommended to create a new Google Cloud Project, for an easier cleanup.

## Quickstart with Terraform
In your Cloud Shell, follow the steps outlined:

### 1.  Clone this repo and cd to this directory
```
git clone https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/anthos-service-mesh-samples
cd anthos-service-mesh-samples/docs/asm-gke-terraform
```
### 2. Set your Google Cloud Platform `PROJECT_ID`

Set the `PROJECT_ID` environment variable:

To enable the above services, run the following in your terminal
```
export PROJECT_ID="<YOUR_PROJECT_ID>"
gcloud config set project $PROJECT_ID
```
### 3.  Create a `variables.tfvars` to set your project ID for Terraform
Run the following command to create a `variables.tfvars` file
```
echo "project_id = \"$PROJECT_ID\"" > terraform.tfvars
```

### 4.  Deploy the Terrform module to set up your ASM on the GKE Cluster
```
terraform init
terraform plan 
terraform apply 
```
Enter `yes` to confirm the Terraform apply step.

`terraform apply` will take a few minutes to provision on GCP

## Verify Anthos Service Mesh Installation
### 1.  Verify that your GKE Cluster membership to a `Fleet` was successful 
A **[Fleet](https://cloud.google.com/anthos/multicluster-management/fleets)** is the term used to logically organized clusters and other resources, for easier management of multi-clusters projects. 
```
gcloud container fleet memberships list --project $PROJECT_ID
```

### 2. Verify the control plane has been provisioned
Run the command to check that the Anthos Service Mesh Control Plane has been succesfully enabled in your cluster
```
gcloud container fleet mesh describe
```
The output should be similar to the following. Note that the `description` is set to `Revision(s) ready for use: asm-managed`
```
createTime: '2022-11-28T14:40:57.866893805Z'
membershipSpecs:
  projects/932729642594/locations/global/memberships/my-membership:
    mesh:
      management: MANAGEMENT_AUTOMATIC
membershipStates:
  projects/932729642594/locations/global/memberships/my-membership:
    servicemesh:
      controlPlaneManagement:
        details:
        - code: REVISION_READY
          details: 'Ready: asm-managed'
        state: ACTIVE
      dataPlaneManagement:
        details:
        - code: OK
          details: Service is running.
        state: ACTIVE
    state:
      code: OK
      description: 'Revision(s) ready for use: asm-managed.'
      updateTime: '2022-11-28T15:41:18.013711333Z'
name: projects/christineskim-asm-tf-04/locations/global/features/servicemesh
resourceState:
  state: ACTIVE
spec: {}
state:
  state: {}
updateTime: '2022-11-28T15:41:23.056954826Z'
```
### Congrats! You can now have a GKE + ASM cluster provisioned. 
Look at the other tutorials in this repo to further try out Anthos Service Mesh's capabilities!

## Cleanup
To cleanup the resources from your GCP project, the easiest is to delete the project that you created for this setup.
### 1. Navigate to this directory
### 2. Run the following:
```
terraform destroy
```
Follow the CLI prompts to input the variable outputs

Commit message:

Use GA Google provider for Terraform sample
* Use the GA Google provider - all of the resources used are now GA.
* Rely on the provider's default project to avoid setting a global
  project_id variable.
* Updated instructions to set GOOGLE_CLOUD_PROJECT environment variable.
* Removed unused region variable.
* Less restrictive version constraint for provider.
* Update instructions to enable Cloud Resource Manager API - it's needed by google_project
  datasource.

docs/asm-gke-terraform/README.md, after:

## Managed Anthos Service Mesh on GKE with Terraform

This is a general setup of a single cluster with Anthos Service Mesh using the native [GKE Fleet Terraform resource](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/google/latest/docs/resources/gke_hub_feature) for the examples in the `docs` folder.

The following will set up a GKE cluster with Anthos Service Mesh (ASM) with a _Managed Control Plane_ installed.

The following services will be required for this:
* `mesh.googleapis.com`

### Prerequisites
* This tutorial is best suited for [Cloud Shell](https://shell.cloud.google.com), which comes ready with the Google Cloud SDK and Terraform.
*  You can follow this setup with either a [new Google Cloud Project](https://cloud.google.com/resource-manager/docs/creating-managing-projects#creating_a_project) or a pre-existing Google Cloud Project. It is recommended to create a new Google Cloud Project, for an easier cleanup.

## Quickstart with Terraform
In your Cloud Shell, follow the steps outlined:

### 1. Clone this repo and cd to this directory
```
git clone https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/anthos-service-mesh-samples
cd anthos-service-mesh-samples/docs/asm-gke-terraform
```
### 2. Configure the project to use

Terraform will use the `GOOGLE_CLOUD_PROJECT` environment variable to set the default project to manage resources in.
```
gcloud config set project <YOUR_PROJECT_ID>
GOOGLE_CLOUD_PROJECT="$(gcloud config get-value project)"
export GOOGLE_CLOUD_PROJECT
```

### 3. Enable the Cloud Resource Manager API

```
gcloud services enable cloudresourcemanager.googleapis.com
```
The google_project Terraform datasource uses this API to read project metadata.

### 4.  Deploy the Terrform module to set up your ASM on the GKE Cluster
```
terraform init
terraform plan
terraform apply
```
Enter `yes` to confirm the Terraform apply step.

`terraform apply` will take a few minutes to provision on GCP

## Verify Anthos Service Mesh Installation
### 1.  Verify that your GKE Cluster membership to a `Fleet` was successful
A **[Fleet](https://cloud.google.com/anthos/multicluster-management/fleets)** is the term used to logically organized clusters and other resources, for easier management of multi-clusters projects.
```
gcloud container fleet memberships list --project $PROJECT_ID
```

### 2. Verify the control plane has been provisioned
Run the command to check that the Anthos Service Mesh Control Plane has been succesfully enabled in your cluster
```
gcloud container fleet mesh describe
```
The output should be similar to the following. Note that the `description` is set to `Revision(s) ready for use: asm-managed`
```
createTime: '2022-11-28T14:40:57.866893805Z'
membershipSpecs:
  projects/932729642594/locations/global/memberships/my-membership:
    mesh:
      management: MANAGEMENT_AUTOMATIC
membershipStates:
  projects/932729642594/locations/global/memberships/my-membership:
    servicemesh:
      controlPlaneManagement:
        details:
        - code: REVISION_READY
          details: 'Ready: asm-managed'
        state: ACTIVE
      dataPlaneManagement:
        details:
        - code: OK
          details: Service is running.
        state: ACTIVE
    state:
      code: OK
      description: 'Revision(s) ready for use: asm-managed.'
      updateTime: '2022-11-28T15:41:18.013711333Z'
name: projects/christineskim-asm-tf-04/locations/global/features/servicemesh
resourceState:
  state: ACTIVE
spec: {}
state:
  state: {}
updateTime: '2022-11-28T15:41:23.056954826Z'
```
### Congrats! You can now have a GKE + ASM cluster provisioned. 
Look at the other tutorials in this repo to further try out Anthos Service Mesh's capabilities!

## Cleanup
To cleanup the resources from your GCP project, the easiest is to delete the project that you created for this setup.
### 1. Navigate to this directory
### 2. Run the following:
```
terraform destroy
```
Follow the CLI prompts to input the variable outputs
